---
layout: narrative
title: Assignment 1
author:
editor: Sabina Pringle
rights:
source:
toc:
-

---

Date: February 14, 2021

You asked me to ascertain whether there was an enforceable contract between Pearl Mountain Resort and Lodge (“Pearl Mountain”) and the Martins and similarly situated guests. The central issue is whether there was assent where Pearl Mountain published an advertisement on social media stating that it would cover the expenses of any guest staying at Pearl Mountain for five days or more if there were less snow on Pearl Mountain’s slopes than on the slopes of other statewide resorts, and the Martins booked a stay of five days during which time there was less fresh powder at Pearl Mountain than at several other ski resorts in the state.

Assent, or mutual assent, sometimes called the meeting of the minds of the parties, is the expressed willingness of each party to enter into an agreement. No contract is formed unless both parties assent. The Restatement (Second) of Contracts (“RST”) § 3 defines an agreement as a manifestation of mutual assent on the part of two or more persons. A bargain is an agreement to exchange promises or to exchange a promise for a performance or to exchange performances. Under the bargain theory of relief where a promise to exchange one thing for another gives rise to mutual obligations, an enforceable promise becomes a contract where there is assent (offer and acceptance) and reciprocity (consideration). This analysis will discuss offer and acceptance. It will not discuss reciprocity (consideration).

The first sub-issue is whether there was a valid offer where Pearl Mountain placed an advertisement on various social media outlets, stating “for anyone who books a stay of five days or longer at Pearl Mountain Resort, if we don’t have more fresh powder than every other ski resort in the state on any day during your stay, we’ll cover the cost of your skiing, lodging, food, and drink for that day.”

Under RST § 24, an offer is a manifestation of intent to enter into a bargain made by an offeror to an offeree. This rule is interpreted by the courts the objective theory of interpretation, which provides that words and conduct of the parties should be interpreted as a reasonable person would interpret them, to determine whether the communications of the parties constitute an offer. No formalities, such as words of promise, are required; the offer may be written or spoken, communicated by other conduct, or implied by facts.

A court will weigh and balance a series of factors when considering whether there was a manifestation of intent to enter into a bargain made by an offeror to an offeree. These factors include language, including whether there were words of promise or commitment; the level of detail of the communication’s terms; the number of people the communication was addressed to, and whether the communication named a party or parties; trade usage and/or custom including relevant community practices; prior dealings and/or conversations between the parties; characterization including whether the communication was a price quote, advertisement, or other factors. One or more factors may have stronger weight than others depending on the context of the communication.

Generally, an advertisement (ad) is not an offer because it is usually addressed to a large number of people and phrased in general terms. Instead, there is a presumption that an ad is a solicitation of an offer, or a mere request to consider and examine and negotiate unless the circumstances are exceptional, and the words used are very plain and clear. Leonard v. Pepsico, 88 F.Supp. 2d 116 (1999). For an advertisement to be an offer, there must be some language of commitment or some invitation to take action without further communication. An ad is more likely to be considered an offer if it (1) limits the number of people who can accept; (2) invites performance; and (3) communicates willingness to commit.

Here, the Martins would argue that Pearl Mountain’s advertisement was an offer because it (1) limited the number of people who could accept by specifying that it was for anyone who booked a stay of five days or longer at Pearl Mountain, (2) invited performance by creating the rebuttable presumption that no other resort in the state had more snow on its slopes than Pearl Mountain, and (3) communicated willingness to commit by stating that it would cover the cost of skiing, lodging, food, and drink for guests staying five days or more if the presumption it created were untrue.  In Carlill v. Carbolic Smoke Ball Co., the court found that an ad was an offer because by stating that the company would give £100 to anyone who used the product and still got the flu, the advertiser invited performance by inviting the public to prove it wrong and communicated a willingness to commit by promising a reward if they did. Similarly, the Martins would argue that Pearl Mountain’s advertisement was a prove-me-wrong offer which, by stating “we are the undisputed powder champions of the world and no other resorts can match our immense snowfall,” created a rebuttable presumption that invited performance.

Pearl Mountain would argue that ads are not offers but instead mere requests to consider, examine and negotiate unless the circumstances are exceptional, as ruled in Leonard v. Pepsico, and that here the circumstances were not exceptional because it is the custom and practice of companies to regularly say that they are the best. Pearl Mountain would also argue that its communication was not an offer because it was addressed to a large number of people who booked or could book a stay of five days or longer at Pearl Mountain. The Martins would counter that Pearl Mountain’s communication was not limited to a large number of people because only a small number of people went to stay at Pearl Mountain for five days or more. Because Pearl Mountain’s communication is a prove-me-wrong ad, a court would likely find that it is both an ad and an offer where Pearl Mountain clearly communicated a willingness to commit. Therefore, a court would likely find that Pearl Mountain’s communication is an advertisement and an offer.

The second sub-issue is whether there was acceptance where the Martins booked a stay of five days at Pearl Mountain and found that there was more snow on the slopes of other resorts in the state than on Pearl Mountain’s slopes.

Acceptance of an offer is defined in RST § 50 as a manifestation of assent to the terms of the offer, made by the offeree in a manner invited or required by the offer. This rule is interpreted by the courts using the objective theory of interpretation, defined above on p. 2, ¶ 1. To determine whether there was acceptance, courts usually apply the positioned reasonable person test which interprets the meaning of words and conduct according to the understanding of a “universal” observer who is placed in the position of the recipient of the communication. Relevant evidence includes evidence of the history of the parties’ relationship and of the circumstances surrounding the communications and takes into account the mode and manner of acceptance, if any, specified in the offer.

Generally, an offer may specify any mode or manner of acceptance that the offeror desires. However, if the offeror does not specify that a specific manner of acceptance is the only accepted manner, a court will interpret the offer to allow acceptance in any reasonable manner. The mode and manner of acceptance also depends on whether an offer is bilateral or unilateral. In bilateral contracts, a promise is made in exchange for a promise, acceptance happens with the return promise, and both parties are bound when the return promise is made. Bilateral contracts follow the mirror image rule where acceptance must be a mirror image of the offer and even small, unimportant change will result in no acceptance, becoming instead a counteroffer. In unilateral contracts, a promise is made in exchange for performance, acceptance occurs when the offeree renders full performance, and neither party is bound unless and until the offeree has performed. Because courts generally favor bilateral offers, a unilateral offer must specify that it can be accepted only by performance, otherwise it will be deemed bilateral by a court. If the offer specifies that it can only be accepted by full performance, the contract is not formed until the offeree has performed everything specified in the offer. After this is done, only the offeror needs to perform because the offeree has fully performed.

Here, although Pearl Mountain invited performance, it did not specify that its offer could only be accepted by performing in any specific way. Therefore, a court would find that the offer allowed acceptance in any reasonable manner. The Martins would argue that a reasonable manner of acceptance was to accept the offer in the manner prescribed by the mirror image rule, by making a return promise in exchange for Pearl Mountain’s promise by booking a stay at Pearl Mountain for five days or more, and that their return promise was the mirror image of Pearl Mountain’s offer to cover the costs of “anyone who books a stay of five days or more.” The Martins would argue that acceptance happened with their return promise, and that both parties were bound when the Martins booked a five day stay.  

Pearl Mountain might argue that their offer was unilateral by implication because a prove-me-wrong ad creates a rebuttable presumption which the offeree is called on to rebut, making the rebuttal the full performance a unilateral contract requires. However, in Carbolic Smoke Ball the court did not require that a person who caught the flu perform in any way to rebut the presumption that if they took Carbolic Smoke Ball’s “medicine” they would not catch the flu. Therefore, a court would likely find that the Martins accepted Pearl Mountain’s offer.

In conclusion, a court would likely find that there was an enforceable contract between Pearl Mountain and the Martins and similarly situated guests.


---
